Welcome back.
Let's build our first Web site now.
I've already created a folder called Web server because this is going to be our web server for now.
And inside of this web server we have an index Don ACM all file which will be the extension for creating
a nation email file.
We have script dot J.S. which is the extension for writing javascript just like we have dot PI for writing
Python.
And then we have style dot c assess for writing CSF styles.
Now in this section I'm going to be using Sublime Text and my eye term terminal.
But you can use whatever developer tool that you want.
I like using these ones just for the screen recordings they help because well it's nice and clean it
doesn't give me too many hints so that I can also make errors and show you along as I make errors how
I fix them.
But again you can use Visual Studio code whatever you prefer.
Now you see over here that all these files are empty but remember a web server simply gives these three
files to a browser so that the browser can display the page so let's start off with a Shia e-mail.
How do we write HMO well Sublime Text actually lets me do something interesting here.
If I type in a CML and then hit tab it auto fills it for me.
All right all right.
I kind of cheated but hey I don't want to bore you to death.
So this is a standard HMO file because I have the DOT HMO extension if I have this type of syntax I
can write HMO and it's not that difficult.
We have opening tags and closing tags with the backslash here.
So we have the head of the Web site with the title.
So this is what appears on the tab.
So let's say my Web site very creative.
So that's the head.
And then the body.
This is what gets displayed on a Web site.
So in here I can say I am a web master just like that.
And we've created are a sham Alpha.
Now check this out if I now open index on a HMO if I right click here and let's say open in your window
or you can even just go and double click this file.
So if I double click this.
Look at that I am a web master.
Just simple text.
Nothing too crazy but I've just created my first web site let's continue with CSX CSX has a different
syntax than a Shia CSF syntax goes something like this.
We can give it what a simple element we want to add some styling to in our case let's say body and I
can say body then curly brackets and in here I want to have background let's say color and we'll go
with let's go with green Phi save this and I refreshed the page Mm hmm.
Nothing happened.
And this is a little small detail that again this isn't a web development course so we don't need to
worry too much about.
But essentially the very first thing that happens is that the HMO file gets sent and the HMO file is
actually the only thing that gets read by the browser.
So within the HMO file I have to say hey HMO by the way we also have a c assess file.
Can you also use that in the website so we can do that in the head.
Tag by using something called a link tag so a link tag can actually remove some of this.
We simply have to say hey it's a type of text C Ss and it has something called H riff H or f simply
says hate whereas this file located in our case because it's in the same folder as our index site HMO
we can simply say it's style dot c SS because well just look for style that's SS and that's where the
style file is.
And now if you remember we also had the relationship style sheet that we need to include.
I just removed it so that we can see why we're writing over here.
So if we do style sheet and this is just something a syntax that you have to get used to if you want
to include a CSX file if I saved this and go back and refresh it look at that my ugly Web site let's
make it a little bit bigger my ugly Web site with a green background color now has some stop if I open
up the developer tools.
Once again
and I hit refresh look at that I get an HMO file and a CSX file awesome.
So I just created my own Web server.
Right.
We could even write JavaScript here but again this is in a javascript core so we don't need to worry
about it.
In this case here you go.
I just wrote some javascript which this is kind of like writing print in Python five refresh the page
one more time again JavaScript file doesn't get displayed because well we have to again tell index that
a symbol that we need a javascript file and usually JavaScript files are contained in a script tag usually
at the bottom of the body.
So let's close that.
And then in here instead of using the H ref we just have to say as RC for source and then once again
where's the javascript file.
It's at script J Yes.
So if I save this and I refresh the page look at that we're now loading this script J.S. file and all
it's doing is if we click on the console tab is there you go.
It printed something in the console and console is something that JavaScript uses but all we care about
is that we're able to serve these three files what we've done is created our very first server but you
may have noticed something when you went up over here look at the you URL path that we have that's not
why you usually type into a Web site right.
I mean we saw that the Web site over here is Casey D dot com.
Well has the dot com uses a GDP that's a real Euro right.
Well I'm sorry to tell you that we didn't actually create a real web server because all we've done is
we've served to the browser some files from as you can see from our computer.
So all it's doing is the browser saying hey I'm going to display these files that are located right
here on your computer so essentially we have a web server that's also running a browser but that's not
how real life works.
Why would that be.
Well imagine if he had your own Web site do you really want to have people from all over the world access
your Web site directly through your computer grabbing the files from your computer.
I mean no right.
There's a lot of security issues there's a lot of issues with performance.
You have to keep your laptop on the entire time so people can access your Web site.
Instead we want to a web server which as the name suggests service files and specializes in serving
files to browsers somewhere in the world that I don't have to worry about.
It's not on my computer somebody owns that machine somebody owns that computer and it's on all the time
so that whenever we go to a Web site or a link it's always going to be running and sending those files
out.
So we're finally going to get back to Python here because what we want to do is do something more sophisticated
than just having these files on our machine instead we want to build a real server using Python that
we can deploy so that people can access our Web site anywhere in the world.
Now you might still be confused this whole process might not make complete sense to you because we're
just getting started but don't worry.
By the end of it all it's all going to make sense.
So let's forget about the browser for now and get into building a real server something more sophisticated
than what we've done up until now which is just a folder with these three files and we just double click
on index that Asia.
I'll see you in the next video by.